.TH qmail-getpw 8 "" eQmail
.SH NAME
qmail-getpw \- give addresses to users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qmail-getpw \fIlocal\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
In \fBqmail\fR, each user controls a vast array of local addresses. \fBqmail-getpw\fR
finds the user that controls a particular address, \fIlocal\fR.
It prints six pieces of information, each terminated by NUL: \fIuser\fR; \fIuid\fR;
\fIgid\fR; \fIhomedir\fR; \fIdash\fR; and \fIext\fR. The user's account name is
\fIuser\fR; the user's uid and gid in decimal are \fIuid\fR and \fIgid\fR; the user's
home directory is \fIhomedir\fR; and messages to \fIlocal\fR will be handled by
\fIhomedir\fR\fB/.qmail\fR\fIdashext\fR.

In case of trouble, \fBqmail-getpw\fR exits nonzero without printing anything.

\fBWARNING:\fR The operating system's \fBgetpwnam\fR function, which is at the heart
of \fBqmail-getpw\fR, is inherently unreliable: it fails to distinguish between
temporary errors and nonexistent users. Future versions of \fBgetpwnam\fR should
return ETXTBSY to indicate temporary errors and ESRCH to indicate nonexistent users.
.SH "RULES"
\fBqmail-getpw\fR considers an account in \fB/etc/passwd\fR to be a user if (1) the
account has a nonzero uid, (2) the account's home directory exists (and is visible to
\fBqmail-getpw\fR), and (3) the account owns its home directory. \fBqmail-getpw\fR
ignores account names containing uppercase letters. \fBqmail-getpw\fR also assumes
that all account names are shorter than 32 characters.

\fBqmail-getpw\fR gives each user control over the basic \fIuser\fR address and
all addresses of the form \fIuser\fR\fBBREAK\fR\fIanything\fR. When \fIlocal\fR is
\fIuser\fR, \fIdash\fR and \fIext\fR are both empty. When \fIlocal\fR is
\fIuser\fR\fBBREAK\fR\fIanything\fR, \fIdash\fR is a hyphen and \fIext\fR is
\fIanything\fR. \fIuser\fR may appear in any combination of uppercase and lowercase
letters at the front of \fIlocal\fR.

A catch-all user, \fBalias\fR, controls all other addresses. In this case \fIext\fR
is \fIlocal\fR and \fIdash\fR is a hyphen.

You can override all of \fBqmail-getpw\fR's decisions with the \fBqmail-users\fR
mechanism, which is reliable, highly configurable, and much faster than \fBqmail-getpw\fR.
This is the recommanded way in \fBeQmail\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
qmail-users(5),
qmail-lspawn(8)
