.TH smtpplugins 5 "" openqmail
.SH NAME
smtpplugins \- configuration file of qmail-spp (smtpplugins)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBQMAILHOME/etc/smtpplugins\fR is the configuration file for qmail-spp.
It consist of few sections, one for each command:
.P
    connection - for plugins run just after client connection
    helo       - for HELO/EHLO
    mail       - for MAIL
    rcpt       - for RCPT
    data       - for DATA
    auth       - for AUTH
.P
Section names are marked using square brackets ('[' and ']'). After a section
name there have to be inserted one ore more \fIplugins\fR to execute for this
command - one per line. Pathes are relative to QMAILHOME. Lines startting with
'\fI#\fR' will be ignored.
.P
If line starts with a colon (':'), then the \fIplugin\fR will be invoked by a
system shell (/bin/sh -c). This is useful for debugging a plugin but slighty
slower than normal mode.
.P
If config file \fBsmtpplugins\fR doesn't exist, \fBqmail-spp\fR is disabled.
.SH EXAMPLE
Assuming that all \fIplugins\fR are located in \fIQMAILHOME/bin/plugins\fR,
the config file could look like this:
.P
.RS
# plugins to execute on client's connection
.sp 0
[connection]
.sp 1
# plugins to execute on HELO/EHLO commands
.sp 0
[helo]
.sp 0
:bin/plugins/badhelo example.com spammers.com
.sp 1
# plugins to execute on MAIL command
.sp 0
[mail]
.sp 0
# bin/plugins/spf
.sp 1
# plugins to execute on RCPT command
.sp 0
[rcpt]
.sp 0
bin/plugins/morelog
.sp 1
# plugins to execute on DATA command
.sp 0
[data]
.sp 1
# plugins to execute on AUTH command
.sp 0
[auth]
.RE
.P
In this example on each incomming mail \fBQMAILHOME/bin/plugins/badhelo\fR
will be invoked. If the message was not rejected by \fBbadhelo\fR, next the
\fBR QMAILHOME/bin/plugins/morelog\fR will be executed in a new system shell.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kai Peter. Adapted from the qmail-spp documentation website.
Original publisher information (as of December 2015):
.P
.ce
Copyright © 2004-2008 Pawel Foremski
.ce 0
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later
version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections,
no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
qmail-spp(8)
