.TH smtpplugins 5 "" openqmail
.SH NAME
smtpplugins \- configuration file of qmail-spp
.SH DESCRIPTION
By default
.B smtpplugins
is the configuration file of qmail-spp, located in
.IR /usr/local/qmail/control 
directory. It consist of few sections, one for each command:
.P
    connection - for plugins run just after client connection
    helo       - for HELO/EHLO
    mail       - for MAIL
    rcpt       - for RCPT
    data       - for DATA
    auth       - for AUTH
.P
Section names are marked using square brackets ('[' and ']'). 
After a section name there have to be inserted one ore more
.IR plugins 
to execute for this command - one per line. Pathes are relative
to /usr/local/qmail. Lines startting with '#' will be ignored.
.P
If line starts with a colon (':'), then the
.IR plugin
will be invoked by a system shell (/bin/sh -c). This is useful 
for debugging a plugin but slighty slower than normal mode.

.SH EXAMPLE
Assuming that all
.IR plugins
are located in
.IR /usr/local/qmail/bin/plugins ","
the config file could look like this:
.P
.RS
# plugins to execute on client's connection
.sp 0
[connection]
.sp 1
# plugins to execute on HELO/EHLO commands
.sp 0
[helo]
.sp 0
:bin/plugins/badhelo example.com spammers.com
.sp 1
# plugins to execute on MAIL command
.sp 0
[mail]
.sp 0
# bin/plugins/spf
.sp 1
# plugins to execute on RCPT command
.sp 0
[rcpt]
.sp 0
bin/plugins/morelog
.sp 1
# plugins to execute on DATA command
.sp 0
[data]
.sp 1
# plugins to execute on AUTH command
.sp 0
[auth]
.RE
.P
In this example on each incomming mail
.IR /usr/local/qmail/bin/plugins/badhelo 
will be invoked and in case the mail was not rejected
.IR /usr/local/qmail/bin/plugins/betterlog
in a new system shell.
." Assumption:
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The config file itself has to exist (even if it's empty), otherwise eqmail 
will crash with an "segfault ... error 4" (from glibc).
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kai Peter. Adapted from the qmail-spp documentation website.
Original publisher information (as of December 2015):
.P
.ce
Copyright © 2004-2008 Pawel Foremski
.ce 0
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later
version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections,
no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
qmail-spp(8)
