.TH qmail-spp 8 "" openqmail
.SH NAME
qmail-spp \- adds plugin support to qmail-smtpd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qmail-spp
enhances the functionality of qmail-smtpd on a way apart of patches. It is part
of eqmail.
.IR Plugins
are independant external programs which are executed after processing a SMTP 
command, but just before accepting it by the MTA.
.P
.IR Plugins
can be written in any programming language and they
.P
 \- should not read anything from standard input,
 \- can print commands on standard output,
 \- should print all errors to standard error (they are logged),
 \- should not exit with error code 120.
.P
Required data can be obtained from environment variables.
.SH FILES
.B qmail-spp
reads configuration from
.IR etc/smtpplugins
by default.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B qmail-spp
.IR sets 
the following environment variables:
.P
.RS
.IB SMTPHELOHOST
.RS
argument of 'HELO/EHLO' command
.RE
.P
.IB SMTPMAILFROM
.RS
argument of 'MAIL' command
.RE
.P
.IB SMTPRCPTTO
.RS
argument of last 'RCPT' command
.RE
.P
.IB SMTPRCPTCOUNT
.RS
how many times has 'RCPT' command been accepted
.RE
.P
.IB SMTPRCPTCOUNTALL
.RS
as above, but counts all issued 'RCPT' commands
.RE
.P
.IB SMTPRCPTHOSTSOK
.RS
rcpthosts check was successful (1) or not (0)
.RE
.P
.IB SMTPAUTHUSER
.RS
user name of authorized SMTP client
.RE
.P
.IB SMTPAUTHMETHOD
.RS
used SMTP authorization method
.RE
.RE
.P
.B NOTE ": "
." that 
.IR SMTPRCPTCOUNT 
is incremented 
.B after 
accepting the recipient by a plugin, and 
.IR SMTPRCPTCOUNTALL 
is incremented 
.B before 
asking the plugin if the recipient should be accepted.
.P
." Usually SMTP Auth is part of eqmail (supported)
." .B NOTE
." that 
." .IB SMTPAUTHUSER
." and
." .IB SMTPAUTHMETHOD
." are only available if 
." .B SMTP authentication
." is supported.
." .P
.B qmail-spp
.IR reads 
the following environment variables:
.P
.RS
.IB NOSPP
.RS 
if set, qmail-spp won't run in this session
.RE
.P
.IB SPPCONFFILE	
.RS 
if set, specifies alternative configuration file (instead of standard "etc/smtpplugins")
.RE
.RE
.P
.SH COMMANDS
.IR Plugins
should simply print commands on standard output.
.B qmail-spp 
accepts the following commands:
.IP A
accept mail - turn off qmail-spp in this session
.IP N
next - accept current SMTP command (do not execute remaining plugins for this command)
.IP O
ok - like N, but omits qmail checks in MAIL and RCPT
.IP Emsg
error - do not accept this SMTP command and immediately send msg to the client
.IP LMmsg
later, mail - like E, but shows error after MAIL command
.IP LRmsg
later, rcpt - like E, but shows error after RCPT command
.IP LDmsg
later, data - like E, but shows error after DATA command
.IP Rmsg
reject mail - send msg to the client and drop connection
.IP D
drop connection immediately, without printing anything
.IP Svar=value
set environmental variable var to value
.IP Uvar
unset var variable
.IP Hcontent
header - add header content (eg. X-Spam-Flag: YES)
.IP Cfoo@bar.com
change last address provided by the client to foo@bar.com (MAIL FROM or RCPT TO address)
.IP Pmsg
print - send msg to the client
.P
Each plugin command 
.B must 
end with a new line. Valid SMTP response codes are 
.B not
added automatically to messages generated by 
.IR plugins "."
One of A, N, O, E, R and D should be used as the last command.
.IR Plugins
should print log messages to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Assuming a
.IR plugin
at RCPT command, which prints the following to standard output:
.P
    Cspam@myhost.com
    HX-Spam-Flag: YES
    S"spam=1"
    A
.P
and to standard error:
.P
    redirected spam from <$SMTPMAILFROM>
.P
This will
.P
 \- change last RCPT TO address (redirect) to spam@myhost.com
 \- add X-Spam-Flag: YES header
 \- set $spam to "1"
 \- accept mail (turn off qmail-spp for this session)
 \- log "redirected spam from <spammer@aol.com>" message 
   (where <spammer@aol.com> is envelope sender address)
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Kai Peter. Adapted from the qmail-spp documentation website.
Original publisher information (as of December 2015):
.P
.ce
Copyright © 2004-2008 Pawel Foremski
.ce 0
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under 
the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later 
version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, 
no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
smtpplugins(5)
